DOCS-477: refactor board page (#1095)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/board/_index.md

---
title: "Board Component"
linkTitle: "Board"
weight: 20
type: "docs"
no_list: true
description: "The signal wire hub of a robot, with GPIO pins for transmitting signals between the robot's computer and its other components."
tags: ["board", "components"]
icon: "/components/img/components/board.svg"
# SMEs: Gautham, Rand
---

> A *board* is the signal wire hub of a robot that provides access to general purpose input/output [(GPIO)](https://www.howtogeek.com/787928/what-is-gpio/) pins: a collection of pins on the motherboard of a computer that can receive electrical signals.

Author: General comment: I am not opposed to adding the diagram and other information about viam-server and computers back in here, but I think this helps greatly in addressing shawns SE feedback on this page (https://viam.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-499) that it gets too complex too quickly. 

Also it doesn't really make sense that a computer + GPIO peripheral would be a *board* itself, which the previous intro implied. 
Also the new `pca9685` model's pins just support PWM signaling and I assume that more peripheral types will be added into this component in the future? 

I would be open to make part of this pr moving the diagram elsewhere but am not sure where

Reviewer: Why wouldn't that be a board?

Author: Because the computer is not a board and is not part of board configuration

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}

You must also enable SPI on your board if it is not enabled by default.
See your [board model's configuration instructions](#configuration) if applicable.

{{% /alert %}}

As supported boards have CS pins internally configured to correspond with SPI bus indices, you can enable this connection in your board's configuration by specifying the index of the bus at your CS pin's location and giving it a name.

Integrate `spis` into your robot in the `attributes` of your board as follows:

{{< tabs name="Configure a SPI Bus" >}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
// "attributes": { ... ,
"spis": [
  {
    "name": <"your-bus-name">,
    "bus_select": <"index">
  }
]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
"spis": [
  {
    "name": "main",
    "bus_select": "0"
  }
]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following properties are available for `spis`:

| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |

> |`name`| string| Required | `name` of the SPI bus. |

Reviewer: Also add a space after "string" for consistency [nit]

Refer to your peripheral device's data sheet for SDA/SCL pin layouts.

{{% /alert %}}

## Control your board with Viam's client SDK libraries

To get started using Viam's SDKs to connect to and control your robot, go to your robot's page on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **code sample** tab, select your preferred programming language, and copy the sample code generated.

When executed, this sample code will create a connection to your robot as a client.
Then control your robot programmatically by getting your `board` component from the robot with `FromRobot` and adding API method calls, as shown in the following examples.

These examples assume you have a board called "my_board" configured as a component of your robot.
If your board has a different name, change the `name` in the code.

## API

The board component supports the following methods:

| Method Name | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [AnalogReaderByName](#analogreaderbyname) | Get an [`AnalogReader`](#analogs) by `name`. |
| [DigitalInterruptByName](#digitalinterruptbyname) | Get a [`DigitalInterrupt`](#digital_interrupts) by `name`. |

> | [GPIOPinByName](#gpiopinbyname) | Get a `GPIOPin` by `name`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [GPIOPinByName](#gpiopinbyname) | Get a `GPIOPin` by `name`. |
```
```suggestion
| [GPIOPinByName](#gpiopinbyname) | Get a GPIO pin by its board pin number. |
```

| [AnalogReaderNames](#analogreadernames) | Get the `name` of every [`AnalogReader`](#analogs). |
| [DigitalInterruptNames](#digitalinterruptnames) | Get the `name` of every [`DigitalInterrupt`](#digital_interrupts). |
| [Status](#status) | Get the current status of this board. |
| [ModelAttributes](#modelattributes) | Get the attributes related to the model of this board. |
| [SetPowerMode](#setpowermode) | Set the board to the indicated power mode. |

Additionally, the nested `GPIOPin`, `AnalogReader`, and `DigitalInterrupt` interfaces support the following methods:

[`GPIOPin`](#gpiopin-api) API:

| Method Name | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| [Set](#set) | Set the output of this pin to high/low. |
| [Get](#get) | Get if this pin is active (high). |

> | [PWM](#pwm) | Get the pin’s Pulse-width modulation duty cycle. |
> | [SetPWM](#pwmfreq) | Set the pin’s Pulse-width modulation duty cycle. |
> | [PWMFreq](#pwmfreq) | Get the Pulse-width modulation frequency of this pin. |
> | [SetPWMFreq](#setpwmfreq) | Set the Pulse-width modulation frequency of this pin. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [PWM](#pwm) | Get the pin’s pulse-width modulation duty cycle. |
| [SetPWM](#pwmfreq) | Set the pin’s pulse-width modulation duty cycle. |
| [PWMFreq](#pwmfreq) | Get the pulse-width modulation frequency of this pin. |
| [SetPWMFreq](#setpwmfreq) | Set the pulse-width modulation frequency of this pin. |
```

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name=)

# Get the DigitalInterrupt "my_example_digital_interrupt".
interrupt = await my_board.digital_interrupt_by_name(name="my_example_digital_interrupt")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `name` [(string)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#string): Name of the digital interrupt you want to retrieve. Set as the `"name"` property [in configuration](/components/board/#digital_interrupts).

**Returns:**

- `interrupt` [(DigitalInterrupt)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#DigitalInterrupt): An interface representing a configured interrupt on the board.
- `ok` [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): True if there was a digital interrupt of this `name` found on your board.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#Board).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

// Get the DigitalInterrupt "my_example_digital_interrupt".
interrupt, ok := myBoard.DigitalInterruptByName("my_example_digital_interrupt")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### GPIOPinByName

> Get a `GPIOPin` by its pin number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a GPIO pin by its pin number.
```
This isn't an attribute it's just a physical thing so I think human readability is good here and below

Author: I want to indicate that `GPIOPin` it's an interface designated by the RDK for the GPIO pins, as is isn't an attribute. I think there could be a better way to introduce that

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `name` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): Pin number (NOT GPIO number) of the GPIO pin you want to retrieve.

> Refer to the pinout diagram and data sheet of your [board model](#configuration) for pin numbers and orientation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the pinout diagram and data sheet of your board for pin numbers and orientation.
```
This would be for the board itself, not for the Viam model

Author: But this leads to supported board models & links in case they are confused and it would have to be a model? I don't think it hurts

Reviewer: I don't want them to think that this link contains the relevant info since it doesn't contain a data sheet or pinout

**Returns:**

- `pin` [(GPIOPin)](https://python.viam.dev/_modules/viam/components/board/board.html#Board.GPIOPin): An interface representing an individual GPIO pin on the board.

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.gpio_pin_by_name).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```
```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin = await my_board.GPIO_pin_by_name(name="15")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

> - `name` [(string)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#string): Pin number (NOT GPIO number) of the GPIOPin you want to retrieve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` [(string)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#string): Pin number (NOT GPIO number) of the GPIO pin you want to retrieve.
```

Refer to the pinout diagram and data sheet of your [board model](#configuration) for pin numbers and orientation.

**Returns:**

- `pin` [(GPIOPin)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#GPIOPin): An interface representing an individual GPIO pin on the board.
- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#Board).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```
```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.analog_reader_names).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

# Get the name of every AnalogReader configured on the board.
names = await my_board.analog_reader_by_name()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- None

**Returns:**

- `names` [([]string)](https://go.dev/tour/moretypes/7): An slice containing the `"name"` of every analog reader [configured](#configuration) on the board.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#Board).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

// Get the name of every AnalogReader configured on the board.
names := myBoard.AnalogReaderNames()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### DigitalInterruptNames

Get the name of every [`DigitalInterrupt`](#digital_interrupts) configured on the board.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- None

**Returns:**

> - `names` [(List[str])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typesseq-list): An list containing the `"name"` of every interrupt [configured](#configuration) on the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `names` [(List[str])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typesseq-list): An list containing the `"name"` of every interrupt [configured](#configuration) on the board.
```
```suggestion
- `names` [(List[str])](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#typesseq-list): A list containing the `"name"` of every interrupt [configured](#configuration) on the board.
```

Author: I think this one might have been an accident with github being buggy, I can't see a difference in the code!

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.digital_interrupt_names).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

# Get the name of every DigitalInterrupt configured on the board.
names = await my_board.digital_interrupt_names()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- None

**Returns:**

> - `names` [([]string)](https://go.dev/tour/moretypes/7): An slice containing the `"name"` of every interrupt [configured](#configuration) on the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `names` [([]string)](https://go.dev/tour/moretypes/7): A slice containing the `"name"` of every interrupt [configured](#configuration) on the board.
```

Author: Same here as above

Reviewer 2: A vs An. Should be `A slice`

// Set the power mode of the board to OFFLINE_DEEP.
err := myBoard.Status(context.Background(), nil)
myBoard.SetPowerMode(context.Background(), boardpb.PowerMode_POWER_MODE_OFFLINE_DEEP, nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## `GPIOPin` API

### Set

Set the digital signal output of this pin to low (0V) or high (active, >0V).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `high` [(bool)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values): If `true`, set the state of the pin to high.
If `false`, set the state of the pin to low.
- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- None

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.GPIOPin.set).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin = await my_board.GPIO_pin_by_name(name="15")

# Set the pin to high.
await pin.set(high="true")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `Context` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.
- `high` [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): If `true`, set the state of the pin to high.
If `false`, set the state of the pin to low.
- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#GPIOPin).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin, err := myBoard.GPIOPinByName("15")

// Set the pin to high.
err := pin.Set(context.Background(), "true", nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Get

Get if the digital signal output of this pin is high (active, >0V).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

> - `high` [(bool)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values): If `true`, the state of the pin is set to high.
> If `false`, the state of the pin is set to low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `high` [(bool)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values): If `true`, the state of the pin is set to high.
If `false`, the state of the pin is set to low.
```
```suggestion
- `high` [(bool)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values): If `true`, the state of the pin is high.
If `false`, the state of the pin is low.
```
I fear they'd think "set to" means this method will change the state

Author: Ahh good point!

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.GPIOPin.get).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin = await my_board.GPIO_pin_by_name(name="15")

# Get if it is true or false that the pin is set to high.
high = await pin.get()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `Context` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.
- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

> - `high` [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): If `true`, the state of the pin is set to high.
> If `false`, the state of the pin is set to low.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `high` [(bool)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#bool): If `true`, the state of the pin is high.
If `false`, the state of the pin is low.
```

- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#GPIOPin).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `duty_cycle` [(float)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#float): A float [`0.0`, `1.0`] representing the percentage of time the digital signal output by this pin is in the "high" state relative to the interval period of the PWM signal.

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.GPIOPin.get_pwm).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```
Same goes for the rest of these

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

# Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
pin = await my_board.GPIO_pin_by_name(name="15")

# Get the PWM frequency of this pin.
freq = await pin.get_pwm_frequency()
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `Context` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.
- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `freqHz` [(unit)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#uint): The PWM Frequency in Hertz (Hz) (the count of PWM interval periods per second) the digital signal output by this pin is set to.
- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#GPIOPin).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

The optimal value for PWM Frequency depends on the type and model of [component](/components) you control with the PWM signal output by this pin.
Refer to your device's data sheet for PWM Frequency specifications.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `frequency` [(int)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#int)The PWM Frequency in Hertz (Hz), the count of PWM interval periods per second, to set the digital signal output by this pin to.

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.GPIOPin.set_pwm_frequency).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin = await my_board.GPIO_pin_by_name(name="15")

# Set the PWM frequency of this pin to 1600 Hz.
high = await pin.set_pwm_frequency(frequency=1600)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `Context` [(Context)](https://pkg.go.dev/context): A Context carries a deadline, a cancellation signal, and other values across API boundaries.
- `freqHz` [(unit)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#uint): The PWM Frequency in Hertz (Hz), the count of PWM interval periods per second, to set the digital signal output by this pin to.
- `extra` [(map[string]interface{})](https://pkg.go.dev/google.golang.org/protobuf/types/known/structpb): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#GPIOPin).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

pin, err := myBoard.GPIOPinByName("15")

// Set the PWM frequency of this pin to 1600 Hz.
high := pin.SetPWMFreq(context.Background(), 1600, nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## `AnalogReader` API

### Read

Read the current integer value of the digital signal output by the [ADC](#analogs).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `extra` [(Optional[Dict[str, Any]])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): Extra options to pass to the underlying RPC call.
- `timeout` [(Optional[float])](https://docs.python.org/library/typing.html#typing.Optional): An option to set how long to wait (in seconds) before calling a time-out and closing the underlying RPC call.

**Returns:**

- `reading` [(int)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#int): The value of the digital signal output by the analog reader.

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.AnalogReader.read).

```python
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#ServoDigitalInterrupt).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

// Get the DigitalInterrupt "my_example_digital_interrupt".
interrupt, ok := myBoard.DigitalInterruptByName("my_example_digital_interrupt")

// Get the rolling average of the pulse width across each time the DigitalInterrupt is interrupted with a tick.
rolling_avg, err := interrupt.Value(context.Background(), nil)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Tick

Record an interrupt and notify any [channels](https://go.dev/tour/concurrency/2) that have been added with [AddCallback()](#addcallback).

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}
You should only need to integrate this method into your application code for testing purposes, as the handling of `Tick()` should be automated once the interrupt is configured.

> Calling this method is not yet fully implemented with the Viam Python SDK.

Author: @njooma or @penguinland can either of you confirm this? it's documented in python SDK docs but I found in the python sdk repo that it would just raise a not-implemented error, so I commented out the docs I wrote for python. Same for AddCallback() and AddPostProcessor() method, also on digital interrupts

Reviewer 3: I believe it. `Tick` is only intended to be called from unit tests, to simulate a new signal coming in on hardware. I don't understand why you'd ever want to call it through an SDK from a different language (why not write your tests in the same language you wrote your component in?).

err := interrupt.Tick(context.Background(), true, 12345)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### AddCallback

Add a [channel](https://go.dev/tour/concurrency/2) as a listener for when the state of the [configured GPIO pin](#digital_interrupts) changes.
When [Tick()](#tick) is called, callbacks added to an interrupt will be sent the returned value `high`.

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}
This method is not available for digital interrupts [configured](#digital_interrupts) with `"type": "servo"`.
It is also not yet fully implemented with the Viam Python SDK.
{{% /alert %}}
<!-- NOT YET IMPLEMENTED: see https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-python-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/components/board/client.py#L63

**Parameters:**

- `queue` [(multiprocessing.Queue)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/multiprocessing.html#multiprocessing.Queue): The receiving queue.

**Returns:**

- None

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/board/index.html#viam.components.board.Board.DigitalInterrupt.add_callback).

```python
"""from multiprocessing import Queue"""
my_board = Board.from_robot(robot=robot, name="my_board")

> # Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

interrupt, ok := myBoard.DigitalInterruptByName("my_example_digital_interrupt")

// Make the channel for Tick().
ch := make(chan Tick)

// Add the channel to "my_example_digital_interrupt" as a callback.
interrupt.AddCallback(ch)
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### AddPostProcessor

Add a [PostProcessor](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#PostProcessor) function that takes an integer input and transforms it into a new integer value.
Functions added to an interrupt will be used to modify values before they are returned by [Value()](#value).

{{% alert title="Caution" color="caution" %}}
This method is  not yet fully implemented with the Viam Python SDK.
{{% /alert %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Go" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `processor` [(PostProcessor)](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#PostProcessor): The post processor function to add.

**Returns:**

- `error` [(error)](https://pkg.go.dev/builtin#error): An error, if one occurred.

For more information, see the [Go SDK Docs](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/board#DigitalInterrupt).

```go
myBoard, err := board.FromRobot(robot, "my_board")

> // Get the GPIOPin with Pin Number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the GPIO pin with pin number 15 (GPIO 22 on Raspberry Pi 4).
```

weight: 20
type: "docs"
no_list: true
description: "The signal wire hub of a robot, with GPIO pins for transmitting signals between the robot's computer and its other components."
tags: ["board", "components"]
icon: "/components/img/components/board.svg"
# SMEs: Gautham, Rand
---

A *board* is the signal wire hub of a robot that provides access to [general purpose input/output (GPIO) pins](https://www.howtogeek.com/787928/what-is-gpio/).

If your board has a computer that is capable of running `viam-server`, or is connected to one, it can act not only as the signal wire hub for your robot, but also as the software hub.

Configure a board component on your robot to control and read from the other [components](/components) of the robot, signaling through the GPIO pins on the board as overseen by a computer running `viam-server`.

#### What are GPIO pins?

GPIO pins are pins on the motherboard of a computer that can receive electrical signals.
You can control the flow of electricity to the pins to change their state between "high" (active, >0V) and "low" (inactive, 0V), and wire them to send [digital signals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signal) to and from other hardware.

> Many GPIO implementations also support [Pulse Width Modulation (PWM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation), or can be used to communicate with protocols like [I<sup>2</sup>C](#i2cs) or [SPI](#spis).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many GPIO implementations also support [pulse-width modulation (PWM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation), or can be used to communicate with protocols like [I<sup>2</sup>C](#i2cs) or [SPI](#spis).
```

#### What can I use as my board?

> Generally, you should use a single-board computer (SBC) with GPIO pins or a computer outfitted with a GPIO peripheral.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a single-board computer (SBC) with GPIO pins or a computer outfitted with a GPIO peripheral.
```
Is there another option?

> This way, overseen by a computer running `viam-server`, the GPIO pins on your board can receive signals from and send signals to the other [components](/components/) of your robot.

Reviewer: This seems redundant with the intro. Maybe delete?
```suggestion
```

**Single-Board Computer with GPIO Pins:**

This refers to boards like the [Raspberry Pi](/installation/prepare/rpi-setup/), [BeagleBone](/installation/prepare/beaglebone-setup/), and [Jetson](/installation/prepare/jetson-nano-setup/).

These are all small computing devices outfitted with GPIO pins that are capable of advanced computation, including running `viam-server`.

{{% alert title="Note" color="note" %}}
If you want to use the GPIO pins on your SBC to control your robot, the board itself must run `viam-server`.

> The GPIO pins on SBCs are generally not accessible to external computers.

Reviewer: Is this true for non-Pi boards as well? I only knew it about pis

{{% /alert %}}

**GPIO Peripheral and Computer**:

> A device with GPIO pins, like the [numato](numato) model of board, can still act as the signal wire hub of your robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A device with GPIO pins but no CPU, like a [Numato GPIO peripheral](https://numato.com/product-category/automation/gpio-modules/), can still act as the signal wire hub of your robot.
```
Changing the link is opt but I’d recommend adding some qualifier because if it just says with GPIO pins that could apply to any of the other boards.

However, a board like this does not contain a computer to run `viam-server` on the robot, so it can only act as the software hub if you have physically connected it to another computer.

> In this case, the computer running `viam-server` signals through the GPIO peripheral's GPIO pins to communicate with the other hardware components of the robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, the computer running `viam-server` sends signals through the GPIO peripheral's GPIO pins to communicate with the other hardware components of the robot.
```
Easier to parse since “signals” could be a noun or verb

| [`ti`](ti) | [Texas Instruments TDA4VM](https://devices.amazonaws.com/detail/a3G8a00000E2QErEAN/TI-TDA4VM-Starter-Kit-for-Edge-AI-vision-systems) |
| [`beaglebone`](beaglebone) | [BeagleBoard's BeagleBone AI 64](https://beagleboard.org/ai-64) |
| [`jetson`](jetson) | [NVIDIA Jetson AGX Orin](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-machines/embedded-systems/jetson-orin/), [NVIDIA Jetson Xavier NX](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-machines/embedded-systems/jetson-agx-xavier/), [NVIDIA Jetson  Nano](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/autonomous-machines/embedded-systems/jetson-nano/) |
| [`nanopi`](nanopi) | [FriendlyElec’s NanoPi Mini Board](https://www.friendlyelec.com/index.php?route=product/category&path=69) |
| [`numato`](numato) | [Numato GPIO Modules](https://numato.com/product-category/automation/gpio-modules/), peripherals for adding GPIO pins |
| [`pca9685`](pca9685) | [PCA9685 Arduino I<sup>2</sup>C Interface](https://www.adafruit.com/product/815), a 16-channel [I<sup>2</sup>C](#i2cs) [servo](/components/servo) driver peripheral |
| [`fake`](fake) | A model used for testing, with no physical hardware |

> The following configuration attributes are available for every *board* model besides the `numato` and `pca9685` peripherals and `fake`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration attributes are available for every board model besides the `numato` and `pca9685` peripherals and `fake`.
```

Configuring these attributes on your board allows you to integrate [analog-to-digital converters](#analogs), [digital interrupts](#digital_interrupts), and components that must communicate through the [SPI](#spis) and [I<sup>2</sup>C](#i2cs) protocols into your robot.

> ### `analogs`

Reviewer: I’d propose making all these just sentence case, not matching the attribute names, because they’re general concepts not just attributes, it’d look nicer, and the attribute names are clear in the information under the headings anyway.

Author: I see your point but I think this makes it a lot easier to parse with the way people are directed between the models and the main page. It makes leafing through configuration attributes more simple. I also like the way it looks personally haha

Reviewer: I think it is harder to tell that they're headings, and they appear blue in the right nav :o

Reviewer 2: how they appear in the side nave can be fixed regardless of sentence case. I think we have it in a lot of cases like this because sentence case doesn't always work well
